# Build a ToDo List App using Rails Scaffolding

# Objectives
After successful completion of this project, you will be able to:
- create a new rails app from the command line
- generate a rails scaffold from the command line
- use rake:db migrate to migrate models
- run a rails server and view an app on localhost
- use rake routes to see the routes created by the scaffold
- describe the different routes created and there functions, as well as what resources means in regards to routes
- describe what a before action is and when it is executed
- use erb to edit the view generated by the scaffold
- destroy a scaffold

# Problem Statement
Assume that you work for a company that paid to send you to I/O Avenue. You just received an urgent email from your project manager:

---

Junior Dev,

We’re all excited about the progress you’ve made so far. Things are going very well.

I told the boss that you’d only need a month to ramp up on Ruby and Rails. I hear there have been some delays in that schedule. We were expecting you to be done picking up Rails by now.

The boss just checked in with me and now he wants to see some results.

I know you haven't really started learning how to build a site with Rails, but we’d like to see a working web app by next Monday. I realize that it’s very short notice, but the boss wants to be able to report some ROI to the board for his quarterly report.

Create a simple ToDo List webapp. It doesn’t have to look pretty, but it should work.

Thanks for all your hard work,

PM

---

Well that sucks.

So… how hard can it be to create a website in Rails? If someone asked you to create a full-stack ToDo List web application, including HTML, CSS, JavaScript, Ruby, and a database, how much time would you quote them?

A week?  Two weeks?

We’ve got **one weekend**.

Fortunately, the instructors at I/O Avenue aren't heartless. They've written up this awesome guide to help you get through the project. Let's get to work!

# Step-by-Step Instructions

Create a `project_5` folder in your `projects` folder. Then, start a new Rails app.

```
$ mkdir projects/project_5
$ cd projects/project_5
$ rails new todo
$ cd todo
```

Note: Rails automatically initializes git when creating a new project. Thus, you do not need to do `$ git init`. To verify, there should be a `.git` folder in `/todo`.

---
